.TH tm-manifest "8" "2016" "The Machine" "Manifesting"

.SH NAME
tm-manifest \- Control the Manifesting service of an instance of The Machine

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtm-manifest\fP [options] <directive> [arguments]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtm-manifest\fP is used to control the workflow that generates
bootable filesystem images for nodes of The Machine.  These images are
governed by "manifests", essentialy lists of individual Debian packages.
"Tasks" as described by \fBtasksel(1m)\fP can also appear in manifests.
\fBtm-manifest\fP will bind a manifest to a node, producing a manifest-
driven filesystem image customized for that node.

\fBtm-manifest\fP works by calling the ReST API of the Manifesting 
service hosted on a Top-of-Rack Management Server (ToRMS) for an 
instance of The Machine.  There are four classes of directives:
Debian packages, predefined tasks, manifest upload/download, and
binding a node to a manifest.


.SH DIRECTIVES

.SS Setup
Perform set of configuration of the system before using the manifesting server.
NOTE: prior to running setup routine, configure /etc/tmms appropriately. The
most important variable that needs to be adjusted is "PXE_INTERFACE" to set your
server to server nodes via PXE. If you don't know which interface you are going
to use, then keep it "None" and run the setup routine. But be ware, when PXE_INTERFACE
is not set - your server is not capable of booting the nodes, even though all the
API functionality is still available to use.

Documentation of the "/etc/tmms" config file is in the file itself.

ALSO, NOTE: every time you change networking related parameters you must run
"tm-manifest setup networking" to get your changes applied. Same goes for the
environment parameters (TMCONFIG, MANIFESTING_ROOT and etc) and will require
rerun of "tm-manifest setup envrionment" and "tm-manifest setup golden_image"
as well.


.PP
.TP
all
Optional parameter which will trigger all of the configuration steps in the
correct order: environment, networking, golden_image. This is equivalent as
running "tm-manifest setup" as is (without any arguments)

.PP
.TP
environment
Prepare manifesting environment, by installing dependencies (python3-flask,
python3-requests, vmdebootstrap and etc), creating required folders for the
server (if missing), creating symlinks and putting the config files to the right
location.
This is the esential and must be run prior to "networking" and "golden_image"

.PP
.TP
networking
Configure DHCP\TFTP(pxe) using dnsmasq config file.
Make sure to set PXE_INTERFACE in /etc/tmms appropriately before running this.
Also, /etc/tmconfig must be configured with the right DOMAIN parameter.
NOTE: it is possible to ignore this parameters by setting PXE_INTERFACE="None",
BUT, it is not recommended and should be used for development-like purposes.

.PP
.TP
golden_image
Generate a golden image that will be used for all the custom images as a base,
to save a significant amount of time. However, it might take more than 10 minutes
to complete.

The golden image will be placed under /var/lib/tmms/sys-images/golden/
and should not be modified by any other means than re-creation.

.PP
.TP
tmconfig
This step should only be run on a real ToRMS (ie, it's not for FAME).
The complex MP (Management Processor) IP space (10.254.x.y) will be scanned.
Other info will be gleaned from DNS records expected from HPE IT.  All the
data will be used to create an INI file template.   This template, after
any edits, can be used with the Librarian's "book_register.py -j" to
create the official, authoritative copy of /etc/tmconfig.

The complex must be minimally powered for the node and fabric MPs to 
appear.  Furthermore, the FAM must be powered on to glean the NVM size.
This presents a paradox with a totally new Machine, as the nodes can't
be turned on until the Assembly Agent has /etc/tmconfig, but that can't
be automatically created until the nodes are powered on.

In that case, a sufficient minimum NVM size is assumed and a warning
is printed.   For a brand new complex,

 1. Power up the rack manually.
 2. Run "tm-manifest setup tmconfig > tmconfig.ini".
    Expect warnings.
 3. book_register.py -j | tee /etc/tmconfig
 4. Run the Assembly Agent and power on FAM for every node
 5. Re-run "tm-manifest setup tmconfig > tmconfig.ini".
    Expect NO warnings.
 6. Re-run "book_register.py -j | tee /etc/tmconfig"
 7. Now you can run the manifesting full setup sequence,
    configure the Librarian, and re-start Assembly Agent.
    
.SS Packages
\fBtm-manifest\fP needs an L4TM repo from which to pull (Debian) packages.
These directives allow you to peruse that repo.

.PP
.TP
listpkgs

List a summary of all packages available in the repo.

.PP
.TP
showpkg <name>

Show all the repo metadata for an individual package.

.SS Tasks
Tasks are essentially collections of packages grouped by a common purpose.
For example, "C Development" might include gcc, gdb, git, make, and strace.
These tasks are built in to the manifesting service and cannot be uploaded.

.PP
.TP
listtasks
List all the tasks available on the server to use for the manifest.

.PP
.TP
showtask <name>
Show the contents of the requested taksks in the json format.

.SS Manifests
Manifests represent the packages present in a filesystem image.  Every
image gets a default set of packages that allows booting and connection to
The Machine fabric.   Manifests allow extra packages and tasks to be
added to that default image.   The format of a manifest is JSON as shown
below:

{
    "foo": "Got to find the nroff macro",
}

.PP
.TP
list
List all available\\uploaded manifests on the server.

.PP
.TP
show <name>
Show contents of the manifest in the json format.

.PP
.TP
put [prefix] <file>
Upload a manifest to the server.
param 'prefix': optional parameter to set a prefix for the manifest. Example:
"put my/manifest/folder/ /path/to/awesome_manifest.json" will put this manifest
available under the "my/manifest/folder/awesome_manifest" name.

.SS Node and manifest binding
.PP
The nodes in an instance of The Machine can be listed out.  The value string
is a hierarchical description of physical locations.  An individual node
can be bound to a single manifest.  That binding will create a file system
image customized for the node according to the manifest.  The image and
a kernel will be moved to the TFTP download area to allow the node to
PXE boot that image.

.PP
.TP
listnodes
Shows all nodes and their manifest bindings.

.PP
.TP
setnode <nodestring> <manifestname>
Generate a filesystem image based of the specified manifest to bood a desiered
node. Node will need to be restarted to pick up a new filesystem image.
Warning: Previous state of the node will be replaced with a new, fresh one.

\fP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP

.TP
-?
Print a synopsis of all options and hints

.TP
-d
Turn on debugging

.TP
-v
Make it talk

\fP
.SH FILES
The global config file for the manifesting service on the ToRMS is at
"/etc/tmms".  Comments should make it self-documenting.

    Source code
        /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/tmms/
        All the source code located here, including the test suites.

    Build directories
        /var/lib/tmms/
        All the artifacts to boot nodes are here: manifests, PXE (DHCP/TFTP)
        configs, golden image and node images, SDHC images, and status files.

    Systemd files
        /usr/default/tm-manifest-server
        /lib/systemd/system/tm-manifest-server.service

    /etc/default/bupxefix
        The presence of this file will cause "setup networking"
        to scan the node MPs for the DHCP Client ID, rather than
        using the calculated formal node coordinate.   This fixes
        the disconnect between temporary bringup values and the
        formal specification.  The file contents are not actually
        read so it may be zero-length.

        At some point the Assembly Agent will properly program the
        value of SetRackCoordinate, and the retrieved value will
        match the calculated value.   The presence of the sentinel
        is superfluous and it may optionally be removed.

        This won't work on a FAME environment, don't create the file.

.SH BUGS
None that we know of.  Today.  Between noon and 1 pm Moscow Standard Time.
