.TH tm-manifest-api "8" "2016" "The Machine" "Manifesting API Server"

.SH NAME
tm-manifest-grub \- Create TFTP environment for nodes to pick up custom FS images.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtm-manifest-grub\fP [options] <directive> [arguments]

.SH DESCRIPTION
    Each node must have its on grub menu, kernel (vmlinuz), and FS image (cpio)
under the TFTP server.  This script generates the grub menu files plus
a single master grub.cfg which is originally downloaded by grub.efi.

    Details: A node boots and system firmware (SFW) downloads (via TFTP)
a single file, the bootloader which is grub.efi.  Grub turns around and
grabs its master grub.cfg file.  All nodes will use this same grub.cfg.
grub.cfg content is based on the DHCP "ClientID" option, as opposed to
the traditional MAC address.  The ClientID contains the node's physical
location (enclosure and node number).  This is evaluated by grub to
choose a specific "menu" file.  Grub menu file is generated per each
node and is stored as env#/grub.node# file which represent each known
node coord. That menu specifies the precise kernel file (vmlinuz) and
customized FS image (.cpio file)

.SH DIRECTIVES

\fP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP

.TP
\fB-?, -h, --help\fR
Print a synopsis of all options and hints

.TP
\fB-c, --config\fR
Config file to use to generate tftp environment.


\fP
.SH FILES
Server is using /etc/tmms config file that is intended to be customizible by the
user if needed per manifesting instance

.SH BUGS
None that we know of.  Today.  Between noon and 1 pm.
