.TH tm-manifest-server "8" "2016" "The Machine" "Manifesting API Server"

.SH NAME
tm-manifest-server \- Control the Manifesting service of an instance of The Machine

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtm-manifest-server\fP [options] <directive> [arguments]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtm-manifest-server\fP is an api server that is responsible for listening to
client's requests. Use "tm-manifest" command line tool to talk to the API.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP

.TP
-C, --config
Use the specified file instead of /etc/tmms

.TP
-D, --daemon-start
Run Manifesting Server as a daemon (background process)

.TP
--daemon-status
Get the status of the Manifesting Server process (is it running or not).

.TP
--daemon-stop
Stop manifesting server if it is running.

.TP
--daemon-restart
Restart Manifesting Server.

.TP
--start-dnsmasq
Restarts dnsmasq configuration based on the /etc/tmms config.  The manifest
server exits.

.TP
-?
Print a synopsis of all options and hints

.TP
-d
Turn on debugging

.TP
-v
Make it talk

\fP
.SH FILES
The server reads \fB/etc/tmms\fR by default.  The default file contains
comments to guide you in its customization.  By default the TMMS suite
(both "tm-manifest setup" and the server) puts config files and images
under /etc/tmms in the following directories:

.PP
.TP
dnsmasq
Files for the dnsmasq assigned to the payload port declared in /etc/tmms.
The primary file ethX.conf includes other files.  The DHCP Client ID to
hostname assignments are in ethX.hostsfile.

.TP
sys-images
The build directory for manifested images, further broken down by node.

.TP
tftp
The root directory of the TFTP server functionality of dnsmasq.  It
contains the EFI (GRUB) boot support plus menus, kernels, and root file
system images for each bound node.

.TP  
/etc/tmconfig
This is the authoritatve "node topology" config file. It has been known
to come from Wonderland, but a directive now exists in "tm-manifest"
to assist in its creation.  This file is also used by the Librarian and
the Assembly Agent.

.TP
/etc/default/bupxefix
The presence of this file will cause the node image builder to scan the node
MP for the DHCP Client ID, rather than using the calculated formal node
coordinate in /etc/tmconfig.   This fixes the disconnect between temporary
bringup scripts and the formal specification.  The file contents are not
actually read so it may be zero-length.

At some point the Assembly Agent will properly program the value of
SetRackCoordinate, and the retrieved value will match the calculated value.
The presence of the sentinel is superfluous and it may optionally be removed.

This won't work in a FAME environment, don't create the file.

.SH LOG FILES

Various components generate their own (possibly rotating) log files.

.PP
.TP
/var/log/tmms.ethX.log
The main log file driven by tm-manifest-server.

.TP
/var/lib/tmms/dnsmasq/ethX.log
From the dnsmasq processes providing DHCP service to the nodes.

.TP
/var/lib/tmms/sys-images/golden/vmdebootstrap.log
Created when a new golden image is generated.

.TP
/var/lib/tmms/sys-images/nodeXX/build.log
Logs all the steps peformed when a manifest is bound to a node.

.TP
/var/lib/tmms/sys-images/nodeXX/untar/root/install.log
Logs all the steps peformed during the chroot into the image which
does the final customization.

.SH BUGS
None that we know of.  Today.  Between noon and 1 pm Moscow Standard Time.
